>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, OCTOBER 23:
ASSESSING THE MEGA-DEAL BETWEEN
AT&T AND TIME WARNER.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, SENATE
REPUBLICANS IN A BALANCING ACT
TO HOLD ON TO THEIR SEATS IN
BATTLEGROUND STATES.
>> PENNSYLVANIA VOTERS ARE
TOTALLY CAPABLE OF
DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE AND THE SENATE
RACE, WHICH IS A TOTALLY
DIFFERENT THING.
>> Sreenivasan: AND, HOW ARE
IRAQI CIVILIANS BEING AFFECTED
IN THE CAMPAIGN TO TAKE BACK
MOSUL FROM ISIS?
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WITH 16 DAYS TO GO UNTIL
ELECTION DAY, DEMOCRAT HILLARY
CLINTON HAS HER LARGEST LEAD YET
IN A NATIONAL POLL OF LIKELY
VOTERS.
THE "WASHINGTON POST-ABC NEWS"
SURVEY OUT TODAY SHOWS CLINTON
PREFERRED BY 12 POINTS OVER
REPUBLICAN DONALD TRUMP-- 50% TO
38%.
LIBERTARIAN GARY JOHNSON
RECEIVES 5% AND GREEN PARTY
CANDIDATE JILL STEIN, 2%.
TODAY, CLINTON CAMPAIGNED IN
NORTH CAROLINA, ONE OF THE
CLOSEST BATTLEGROUND STATES IN
THE PAST TWO ELECTIONS.
>> SO, I BELIEVE WHEN WE VOTE IN
THIS ELECTION, WE'RE STANDING UP
FOR WHO WE BELIEVE AMERICA IS,
AND WE'RE STANDING UP FOR OUR
RIGHTS-- FOR VOTING RIGHTS AND
CIVIL RIGHTS, FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS
AND WORKERS RIGHTS, FOR L.G.B.T.
RIGHTS, FOR THE RIGHTS OF PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE CAMPAIGNED
WITH RUNNING MATE TIM KAINE
YESTERDAY IN PENNSYLVANIA, WHERE
STATEWIDE POLLS SHOW THEM
LEADING AS WELL.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT OUR SCHEDULES
FOR THE NEXT 17 DAYS, YOU'LL
KNOW WE'RE NOT TAKING ANYTHING
FOR GRANTED.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP SHIFTED
FROM PENNSYLVANIA TO FLORIDA
TODAY AS 69% OF LIKELY VOTERS
TOLD THAT SAME "WASHINGTON POST-
ABC NEWS" POLL THEY DISAPPROVE
OF HIS RESPONSE TO ALLEGATIONS--
NOW BY 11 WOMEN-- THAT HE MADE
UNWANTED SEXUAL ADVANCES IN THE
PAST.
TRUMP CALLS THEM "LIARS" AND IS
THREATENING TO SUE THEM ALL.
TODAY, TRUMP CAMPAIGN MANAGER
KELLYANNE CONWAY SAID THEY'RE
STILL COUNTING ON SWING VOTERS
TO WIN BATTLEGROUND STATES.
>> WE'RE NOT GIVING UP. WE KNOW
WE CAN WIN THIS.
AND WE ARE CERTAINLY NOT
CONCEDING TO THE SAME CHATTERING
CLASS THAT'S BEEN WRONG ABOUT
DONALD TRUMP FOR ABOUT A YEAR
AND A HALF.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN IF HILLARY
CLINTON WINS THE WHITE HOUSE,
SHE MIGHT HAVE A HARD TIME
GOVERNING WITH BOTH HOUSES OF
CONGRESS CONTROLLED BY THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
REPUBLICANS ARE DEFENDING 24
SENATE SEATS THIS ELECTION, AND
IF THE DEMOCRATS GAIN FIVE OF
THEM-- OR FOUR IF CLINTON AND
KAINE WIN-- THEY'LL REGAIN THE
SENATE MAJORITY.
ONE OF THE MOST VULNERABLE
REPUBLICAN INCUMBENTS IS SENATOR
PAT TOOMEY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JEFF
GREENFIELD LOOKS AT TOOMEY'S
CHALLENGE TO WIN A SECOND TERM,
AND PARTICULARLY THE DYNAMIC OF
BEING ON THE BALLOT THE SAME
TIME AS DONALD TRUMP.
>> Reporter: THIS IS TRUMP
COUNTRY: WILKES-BARRE, IN
NORTHEAST PENNSYLVANIA-WHERE HIS
FERVENT BACKERS OFFER CHEERS FOR
THE REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEE.
>> EVERYONE IN PENNSYLVANIA
WANTS TRUMP YOU KNOW.
(CHEERS)
>> Reporter: BUT OUTSIDE THE
EVENT, TRUMP BACKERS OFFER TOUGH
WORDS FOR THE PARTY'S INCUMBENT
REPUBLICAN SENATOR, PAT TOOMEY,
WHO IS THE ONLY SENATOR RUNNING
FOR REELECTION WHO HASN'T SAID
WHETHER HE SUPPORTS OR WILL VOTE
FOR TRUMP.
>> HE SHOULD ENDORSE TRUMP.
HE'S A REPUBLICAN.
HE SHOULD'VE DONE IT.
>> HE'S NOT LISTENING TO THE
WILL OF THE PEOPLE.
>> I DON'T LIKE THE ARROGANCE,
AND HE'S PART OF THE
ESTABLISHMENT.
>> Reporter: A DAY LATER, AT A
TOOMEY BREAKFAST 100 MILES TO
THE SOUTH, IN THE PHILADELPHIA
SUBURBS, THE SENATOR OFFERS THEM
NO COMFORT.
>> I HAD HOPED THAT DONALD TRUMP
WOULD PERSUADE ME TO BE AN
ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORTER.
THAT HAD BEEN WHAT I HOPED.
I'VE SUPPORTED EVERY REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE SINCE
RONALD REAGAN WITHOUT EXCEPTION.
BUT AT THIS POINT, I REMAIN
UNPERSUADED.
>> Reporter: TO MANY OF THE
VOTERS AT THIS EVENT, THAT IS
EXACTLY THAT DISTANCE THEY
ADMIRE.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE THAT YOU HAVE
TO THINK THE SAME WAY AS
EVERYBODY ELSE ALL THE TIME.
>> Reporter: ELECTED AS A
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN DURING
THE 2010 MIDTERM WAVE, TOOMEY
POINTS TO HIS ABILITY TO WORK IN
A BIPARTISAN FASHION, PASSING
LEGISLATION SIGNED BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA TO HELP SMALL BUSINESSES
AND WORKING WITH DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR JOE MANCHIN AFTER THE
NEWTOWN SCHOOL MASSACRE TO
REQUIRE UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND
CHECKS FOR ANYONE BUYING A GUN.
KATIE McGINTY IS TOOMEY'S
DEMOCRATIC CHALLENGER.
SHE WORKED FOR TWO PENNSYLVANIA
GOVERNORS AND IN BILL CLINTON'S
ADMINISTRATION, AND HILLARY
CLINTON LENT HER SUPPORT IN
PENNSYLVANIA THIS WEEKEND.
>> I HOPE THAT PHILADELPHIA WILL
SEND KATIE McGINTY, ON BEHALF OF
PENNSYLVANIA, TO THE UNITED
STATES SENATE!
(CHEERS)
>> Reporter: BOTH ARE TYING
TOOMEY TO THE TOP OF THE
REPUBLICAN TICKET.
>> EVERY DAY WHEN EVER MORE
HORRIFIC EVIDENCE COMES TO LIGHT
ABOUT WHAT AND WHO DONALD TRUMP
IS AND PAT TOOMEY FAILS TO HAVE
THE COURAGE TO SAY THIS IS
WRONG, THIS IS BENEATH HUMAN
DIGNITY.
PAT TOOMEY IS MAKING CLEAR WHERE
HE STANDS.
THAT'S WITH DONALD TRUMP AND
THAT'S AGAINST THE VALUES, THE
FAMILY VALUES THAT
PENNSYLVANIANS REALLY STAND FOR
AND HONOR.
>> I THINK PENNSYLVANIA VOTERS
ARE TOTALLY CAPABLE OF
DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE, WHICH HAS IN
MY VIEW, TWO VERY BADLY FLAWED
CANDIDATES, AND THE SENATE RACE,
WHICH IS A TOTALLY DIFFERENT
THING.
SO I AM RUNNING AN INDEPENDENT
RACE.
I HAVE FROM DAY ONE.
I'VE BEEN AN INDEPENDENT VOICE,
AND I THINK THAT PENNSYLVANIANS
WILL MAKE A SEPARATE JUDGMENT.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHY TOOMEY
INVITED MAINE REPUBLICAN SENATOR
SUSAN COLLINS, WHO HAS FLATLY
SAID SHE WILL NOT BE VOTING FOR
TRUMP, TO UNDERSCORE HIS
MESSAGE.
>> HE PUTS PEOPLE AHEAD OF
POLITICS; HE IS BEHOLDEN TO NO
ONE.
>> Reporter: TOOMEY'S STRUGGLE
TO OPEN DAYLIGHT BETWEEN HIMSELF
AND TRUMP IS PLAYING OUT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY FOR OTHER REPUBLICAN
SENATORS IN BATTLEGROUND STATES
WHERE TRUMP IS TRAILING OR
FALLING IN THE POLLS.
SOME-- LIKE JOHN McCAIN AND
KELLY AYOTTE-- BROKE WITH TRUMP
FOLLOWING THE RELEASE OF THE
ACCESS HOLLYWOOD VIDEO SHOWING
TRUMP SPEAKING LEWDLY AND
DISPARAGINGLY ABOUT WOMEN.
>> IF ONE OF THE TWO
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES WINS
LET'S SAY SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE
POINTS, I THINK IT'S GONNA BE
VERY DIFFICULT, IF NOT
IMPOSSIBLE, FOR THE SENATE
CANDIDATE IN THE OTHER PARTY TO
PREVAIL.
>> Reporter: TERRY MADONNA
DIRECTS THE CENTER FOR POLITICS
AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS AT FRANKLIN
AND MARSHALL COLLEGE IN
LANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA.
>> TOOMEY NEEDS TO DO TWO
THINGS.
WIN A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF THE
WHITE, WORKING CLASS VOTERS,
PARTICULARLY IN THE SOUTHWESTERN
PART OF PENNSYLVANIA AND THE
NORTHEAST, THAT'S TRUMP'S
BIGGEST AREA OF SUPPORT.
AND WIN THE SUBURBAN COUNTIES
WITH THE COLLEGE-EDUCATED VOTERS
THAT HILLARY CLINTON IS WINNING
RIGHT NOW.
SO HE'S ON THAT TIGHTROPE.
SOMEWHERE HE'S GOT TO FIND A
MIDDLE ROAD TO GET BOTH OF THEM.
AND THAT'S VERY DIFFICULT.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S ESPECIALLY
DIFFICULT, MADONNA ADDS, BECAUSE
PENNSYLVANIANS AND VOTERS
NATIONWIDE ARE SPLITTING THEIR
TICKETS MUCH LESS THAN IN PAST
ELECTIONS.
THAT IS, THEY ARE MORE LIKELY TO
VOTE FOR A PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE AND CONGRESSIONAL
CANDIDATE OF THE SAME PARTY.
THE PROBLEM FOR SENATOR TOOMEY,
AS WITH MANY OTHER ENDANGERED
REPUBLICAN INCUMBENTS, LIES IN
PLACES LIKE THIS: THESE ARE THE
SUBURBS OF PHILADELPHIA.
ONCE RELIABLY REPUBLICAN,
THEY'VE GROWN INCREASINGLY
DEMOCRATIC IN PRESIDENTIAL
YEARS.
A TREND LIKELY TO ACCELERATE
GIVEN WHO IS AT THE TOP OF THE
G.O.P. TICKET.
THE FOUR LARGE SUBURBAN COUNTIES
SURROUNDING PHILADELPHIA MAKE UP
MORE THAN A FIFTH OF THE STATE'S
ELECTORATE, AND A RECENT POLL OF
LIKELY VOTERS IN THESE COUNTIES
FOUND CLINTON IS PREFERRED OVER
TRUMP BY 28 PERCENTAGE POINTS.
AT MAIN LINE SCHOOL NIGHT, A
NON-PROFIT COMMUNITY EDUCATION
PROGRAM IN DELAWARE COUNTY, I
SAT DOWN WITH THREE WOMEN WHO
HAVE VOTED REPUBLICAN IN THE
PAST, BUT WHO DON'T SUPPORT
TRUMP.
CAROLE RUBLEY SUPPORTS CLINTON.
>> I WAS A REPUBLICAN UNTIL ONE
MONTH BEFORE THE PRIMARY, WHEN I
REALIZED IT WAS GOING TO BE, AT
THAT POINT, BETWEEN TRUMP AND
TED CRUZ.
SO, I SWITCHED.
IT WAS REALLY HARD AFTER 40
YEARS.
>> Reporter: SO IT SOUNDS-- IT
SOUNDS LIKE AGAIN, IF THE
REPUBLICANS HAD PUT SOMEONE ELSE
ON THE TICKET LIKE A KASICH OR A
BUSH OR A RUBIO OR SOMEBODY, YOU
MIGHT HAVE BEEN TEMPTED TO VOTE
REPUBLICAN?
>> I WOULD HAVE CONSIDERED THAT
CANDIDATE, ABSOLUTELY.
>> Reporter: CONSTANCE CORINO
SAYS SHE'S NOT VOTING FOR EITHER
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE, BUT WILL
LIKELY SUPPORT TOOMEY IN THE
SENATE RACE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS LEANING YOU
MORE TOWARDS TOOMEY THAN HIS
OPPONENT?
>> I DON'T LIKE ONE PARTY IN
CONTROL, OKAY.
AND I'M REALLY VERY WORRIED
ABOUT THE SENATE, IN PARTICULAR,
TURNING.
AND SO, I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
BALANCE.
I THINK IT'S THE ONLY CHANCE.
>> Reporter: THE CHECK AND
BALANCE OF A REPUBLICAN
CONGRESS--
>> RIGHT.
>> Reporter: AND A DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENT APPEALS TO YOU?
>> IT DOES.
IT DOES.
IT REALLY DOES.
I LIKE IT.
>> Reporter: BARBARA COHEN IS
FOR CLINTON AND SAYS SHE PLANS
TO VOTE FOR DEMOCRAT KATIE
McGINTY BECAUSE OF THE TRUMP
FACTOR.
>> I'VE REALLY THOUGHT VERY HARD
ABOUT THIS, AND IT'S JUST I
DON'T TRUST TOOMEY.
I FEEL HE'S TRYING TO STRADDLE A
FENCE IN SO FAR, HE HASN'T
ENDORSED TRUMP.
ON THE OTHER HAND, HE HASN'T
COME OUT IN A BRAVE OPEN WAY,
THE WAY SENATOR McCAIN HAS DONE,
FOR EXAMPLE.
I RESPECT THAT.
FOR DEMOCRAT KATIE McGINTY, THE
ARGUMENT IS VERY SIMPLE.
WHATEVER SENATOR TOOMEY SAYS, HE
AND DONALD TRUMP ARE TWO PEAS IN
A POD.
EVEN WHEN SHE WAS CAMPAIGNING
WITH DEMOCRATIC NEW YORK SENATOR
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND FOR BETTER
CHILDCARE FOR WORKING PARENTS,
TRUMP WAS STILL FRONT AND
CENTER.
THE ARGUMENT THAT YOUR OPPONENT
IS MAKING THAT I CAN WORK ACROSS
PARTY LINES, I HAVE SHOWN THAT,
I'M NOT A RUBBER STAMP, AND THAT
YOU WOULD SIMPLY DO WHAT A
PRESIDENT CLINTON WANTS, WE NEED
CHECKS AND BALANCES, TO WHICH
YOU SAY?
>> WELL, IT'S TIME FOR SENATOR
TOOMEY TO STAND UP RIGHT NOW
TODAY, AND SHOW US THAT HE'S
READY TO STAND UP TO DONALD
TRUMP, NOT IN WASHINGTON, RIGHT
HERE AND LET US KNOW: ARE YOU
VOTING FOR DONALD TRUMP, OR ARE
YOU NOT?
>> Reporter: IT'S A QUESTION
DOMINATING THEIR TV ADS-- SO
MANY, THIS CAMPAIGN HAS BECOME
THE MOST EXPENSIVE SENATE RACE
IN THE COUNTRY.
>> EVEN AFTER TRUMP BRAGGED
ABOUT SEXUALLY ASSAULTING WOMEN,
TOOMEY STOOD BY HIM.
>> WHAT'S IMPORTANT FOR
PENNSYLVANIANS IS HAVING A
SENATOR WHO WILL STAND UP TO ANY
PRESIDENT'S BAD IDEAS.
>> Reporter: THE BIPARTISAN BILL
TO TIGHTEN BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR
GUN BUYERS FAILED TO PASS THE
SENATE.
>> THE GOAL WAS TO SEE IF WE CAN
FIND A WAY TO MAKE IT A LITTLE
BIT MORE DIFFICULT FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE NO LEGAL RIGHT
TO HAVE A GUN, FOR THEM TO
OBTAIN IT.
>> Reporter: TOOMEY'S STAND
EARNED HIM THE ENDORSEMENTS OF
GUN SAFETY LEADERS LIKE FORMER
CONGRESSWOMAN GABBY GIFFORDS AND
FORMER NEW YORK CITY MAYOR
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG.
BUT TOOMEY'S STANCE COST HIM THE
SUPPORT OF SOME GUN RIGHTS
ADVOCATES IN PENNSYLVANIA.
DAVID DALTON IS THE FOUNDER OF
THE PENNSYLVANIA-BASED AMERICAN
GUN OWNERS ALLIANCE.
HE WON'T VOTE FOR SENATOR
TOOMEY.
>> IT'S A SCARY SITUATION.
BUT I HONESTLY BELIEVE AND SO DO
MANY OTHER GROUPS IN THE STATE,
THAT IF WE DO VOTE FOR TOOMEY,
WE'RE GIVING CREDENCE TO HIM AND
BLOOMBERG AND GIFFORDS.
IT'S BASICALLY COME DOWN TO VOTE
FOR ANYONE BUT TOOMEY IF YOU
BELIEVE IN GUN RIGHTS.
WE WANT TO TELL THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY: ' ¡ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.'
IF YOU DON'T WANT TO BACK US
ANYMORE, WE'RE NOT GOING TO BACK
YOU.
>> Reporter: McGINTY ARGUES HER
POSITIONS ON GUN CONTROL ARE
EVEN STRONGER THAN TOOMEY'S AND
THAT HE'S OUT-OF-STEP WITH
PENNSYLVANIANS ON SEVERAL KEY
ISSUES.
>> PAT TOOMEY IS NOT ONLY RIGHT,
HE'S EXTREME RIGHT.
NOT ONLY WANTING TO DE-FUND
PLANNED PARENTHOOD BUT SHUT DOWN
THE ENTIRE GOVERNMENT TO DO IT.
A RARE REPUBLICAN VOTE AGAINST
BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION THAT
OFFERED TAX CUTS TO FAMILIES TO
AFFORD COLLEGE.
PAT TOOMEY'S WAY OUT OF THE
MAINSTREAM.
>> Reporter: TOOMEY REMAINS
OPTIMISTIC THAT HIS MESSAGE--
THAT HE CAN BUILD BRIDGES IF HE
IS SENT BACK TO WASHINGTON-- IS
CONNECTING AT HOME.
>> THIS HAS BEEN A VERY
POLARIZING ELECTION AT THE TOP
OF THE TICKET.
IT'S BEEN UGLY.
AND THAT DOES MAKE IT MORE
DIFFICULT.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN WE GIVE
UP.
WITH JUST A LITTLE MORE THAN TWO
WEEKS UNTIL THE ELECTION, THE
LATEST POLLS SHOW THE RACE
BETWEEN TOOMEY AND McGINTY
VIRTUALLY TIED, WHICH MEANS THAT
A HANDFUL OF PENNSYLVANIA VOTERS
COULD WELL DETERMINE WHO
CONTROLS THE SENATE NEXT YEAR.
>> Sreenivasan: IF FEDERAL
REGULATORS SIGN OFF, THERE WILL
BE A HUGE NEW MEDIA COMPANY ON
THE LANDSCAPE NEXT YEAR.
TELECOM GIANT AT&T WILL BUY TIME
WARNER FOR MORE THAN
$85 BILLION-- IN A HALF CASH,
HALF STOCK DEAL.
AT&T, THE NATION'S SECOND
LARGEST CELL PHONE CARRIER, WILL
GAIN CONTROL OF TV NETWORKS LIKE
HBO, TNT, AND CNN AND THE TIME
WARNER MOVIE STUDIO.
THE BOARDS OF DIRECTORS OF BOTH
COMPANIES APPROVED THE DEAL LAST
NIGHT, AND SAY THEY EXPECT IT TO
CLOSE NEXT YEAR.
THIS IS THE BIGGEST DEAL OF ITS
KIND SINCE COMCAST ACQUIRED
NBC/UNIVERSAL FIVE YEARS AGO.
JOINING ME NOW FOR MORE
ANALYSIS, AND WHAT IT MIGHT MEAN
FOR YOU, IS ONE OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" REPORTERS WHO
BROKE THE NEWS, KEACH HAGEY.
SO WHY DID THEY DO THIS?
>> WELL, THE REASON IS BOTH
COMPANIES ARE FACING RAPIDLY
CHANGING WORLD, WHERE BASICALLY
YOUR TELEPHONE IS BECOMING YOUR
TELEVISION.
AND THEY HAVE GOTTEN IT
DIFFERENT WAYS.
AT&T IS FACING SLOWER GROWTH ON
ITS SIDE.
THEY NEED TO GROW BY ACQUIRING
BUSINESSES.
AS WE'VE SEEN THEM DO, THEY
ACQUIRE DIRECTV.
AND TIME WARNER IS STRUGGLING
WITH THE FACT THAT PEOPLE ARE
MIGRATING AWAY FROM PAYING THESE
BIG FAT CABLE BILLS WHERE A LOT
OF THEIR MONEY COMES FROM.
THEY ARE GOING ON TO STREAMING
SERVICES, TO NETFLIX AND THEIR
BUSINESS IS BEING CRAMPED.
AND THE OTHER THING IS TIME
WARNER IS ONE OF THE PRETTIEST
GIRLS AT THE DANCE, A LOT OF
PEOPLE CALL IT.
THEY ARE A COMPANY THAT COULD BE
BOUGHT.
AND AS THE INDUSTRY IS FACING
THIS CONSOLIDATION, THEY'RE
GOING TO BE THE FIRST ONE TO GO.
>> SO NOW WE HAVE THESE TITANIC
FORCES LINING UP MUCH WE'VE GOT
VERIZON WHO BOUGHT AOL AND IS IN
THE PROCESS OF FINISHING UP AN
ACQUISITION OF YAHOO, COMCAST,
UNIVERSAL, AND THEN THIS.
THESE ARE HUGE COMPANIES NOW
THAT WE DIDN'T REALLY SEE A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
>> WILD, SO WE ARE SEEING
VERTICAL INTEGRATION IT SEEMS
LIKE REGULATORS ARE OKAY WITH
THAT.
THEY HAVE BEEN APPROVING THESE
DEALS WHEREAS LONG AS IT IS A
SUPPLIER ARE YOU BUYING, NOT A
DIRECT COMPETITOR, THAT'S FINE.
THESE MERGERS HAVE CONDITIONS ON
THEM.
BUT GENERALLY SPEAKING THAT'S
THE WAY THAT FOLKS ARE BULKING
UP.
>> TIME WARNER WAS BOUGHT AM
USUALLY BY-- FAMOUSLY BY AOL
BEFORE, DIDN'T TURN OUT TO BE A
GREAT DEAL.
HAS THE COMMUNITY LEARNED FROM
WHAT IS GONE WRONG AND ALSO HAVE
THE REGULATORS LEARNED FROM WHAT
HAS HAPPENED IN SOME OF THESE
ACQUISITIONS THAT DIDN'T MAKE
SENSE AT LEAST FROM THE
REGULATORY SIDE.
>> FOLKS AT TIME WARNER SAY WHAT
IS DIFFERENT THIS TIME IS THAT
THE DISTRIBUTION MECHANISM IS SO
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT TO WHETHER
TELEVISION SUCCEEDS OR FAILS.
WHETHER YOU WATCH A SHOW, YOU
NEED TO BE ABLE TO WATCH IT ON A
MOBILE DEVICE, ON DEMAND.
THE DISTRIBUTERS HAVE SO MUCH
CONTROL OVER THAT, IT'S QUITE
DIFFERENT THAN IT WAS
CIRCA 2000.
AS FAR AS THE REGULATORS WE
SAW COMCAST BUY-- AND THE
REGULATORS DID PUT CONDITIONS
WHICH WAS THAT WHEN COMCAST
TRIED TO BUY TIME WARNER CABLE,
THEY FELT LIKE COMCAST WASN'T
REALLY A PERFECTLY GOOD ACTOR
ABOUT THOSE AND THOSE
CONDITIONS DIDN'T WORK OUT SO
WELL.
THERE WERE A LOT OF LESSONS TO
BE LEARNED AND PEOPLE SAID YOU
KNOW, I DON'T THINK THAT DEAL,
COMCAST, UNIVERSAL WOULD HAVE
BEEN APPROVED TODAY.
WE WILL HAVE AN INTERESTING YEAR
TO SEE IF IT GETS APPROVED.
>> OTHER CONCERNS FROM A
CONSUMER STANDPOINT F I HAVE,
FOR EXAMPLE, AN AT&T PHONE THAT
I COULD HAVE ACCESS TO HBO OR
FREE, THAT IS GREAT IF I'M AN
AT&T CONSUMER BUT IT MIGHT NOT
BE THAT GREAT IF I'M A T MOBILE
CUSTOMER.
>> THAT IS THE CENTRAL QUESTION.
IN ORDER TO ACTUALLY GET SINNER
GEES WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE
OVERLAPPING BUSINESSES WHAT IS
THE BENEFIT TO AT&T UNLESS IT
CAN DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT
HOWEVER, THERE IS A LOT
OF-- THERE IS A GENERAL FEELING
FROM EVERYONE I TALKED TO THAT
THEY ARE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
DO THAT THEY ARE NOT GOING TO BE
ABLE TO HAVE AN OFFERING WHERE
THEY HAVE EXCLUSIVE ACCESS TO
TIME WARNER CONTENT.
AS THE C.E.O. OF AT&T SAID ON A
CALL LAST NIGHT, TIME WARNER HAS
BUILT A GREAT BUSINESS OUT OF
SELLING ITS CONTENT TO MANY
DISTRIBUTERS AND IT IS GOING TO
CONTINUE TO DO THAT.
NOTHING'S GOING TO CHANGE.
WE'LL SEE.
>> ALL RIGHT, KEACH HAGEY FROM
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: IRAQI GOVERNMENT
TROOPS ALLIED WITH KURDISH
FORCES, KNOWN AS THE PESHMERGA,
LAUNCHED A NEW OFFENSIVE TODAY
ON TOWNS AND VILLAGES AROUND
MOSUL, THE COUNTRY'S SECOND
LARGEST CITY.
THE KURDISH FORCES SAY THEY'VE
ADVANCED TO WITHIN FIVE MILES OF
MOSUL, GAINING CONTROL OF
VILLAGES AND HIGHWAYS ALONG THE
WAY.
THE LONG-PLANNED OFFENSIVE,
WHICH BEGAN LAST WEEK, INVOLVES
MORE THAN 25,000 IRAQI FORCES AS
WELL AS U.S.-LED COALITION
AIRCRAFT AND ADVISERS.
THE BATTLE FOR MOSUL PRESENTS A
CHALLENGE, TO SAY THE LEAST, FOR
THE CIVILIANS STILL LIVING IN A
CITY CONTROLLED BY ISIS FOR THE
PAST TWO YEARS.
THE UNITED NATIONS WARNS AS MANY
AS A MILLION RESIDENTS OF MOSUL
COULD BE DISPLACED DURING THE
BATTLE.
TO DISCUSS THESE HUMANITARIAN
CONCERNS, I AM JOINED BY SKYPE
FROM BAGHDAD BY KATHARINA RITZ,
THE HEAD OF IRAQ DELEGATION FOR
THE INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FROM YOUR POSITION NOW, WHAT ARE
THE LARGEST SOURCE OF CONCERN
FOR YOU ON A HUMANITARIAN FRONT.
>> THE LARGEST CONCERN AT THIS
STAGE IS OBVIOUSLY IT'S VERY
CHALLENGING TO REACH PEOPLE.
MOST OF THE PEOPLE ARE STILL IN
CITIES OR IN THE CITY CENTERS.
WE TALK MAYBE ABOUT AROUND 5,000
FAMILIES OR PERSONS WHO COULD
LEAVE FROM THE VILLAGES.
BUT THEY ARE NOT YET AT THE
OUTSKIRTS.
SO THERE ARE CHALLENGES.
WE KNOW THERE IS DISPLACEMENT
GOING ON.
THERE IS-- SMOKE WHICH IS TOXIC
UP TO A CERTAIN EXTENT.
THIS ALSO AFFECT THE RESIDENTS
OF THE VILLAGES WHICH ARE
AROUND, OR PEOPLE DISPLACED TO
THESE CAMPS, WHICH MAKES
EVERYTHING-- BECAUSE WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT THE SAFETY OF OUR STAFF.
BUT STILL TRY TO DISPATCH
MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO THIS AREA
WHICH ARE NOW UNDER AN
ADDITIONAL STRESS.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE ANY
SAFETY CORRIDORS OR AVENUES
WHERE CIVILIANS COULD GET OUT AS
THE TROOPS ADVANCE CLOSER AND
CLOSER TO THEIR CITIES.
>> MOST OF THE PLACES HAVE NOT
SEEN MASSIVE DISPLACEMENT OF
CIVILIANS.
BUT GENERALLY THEY TRY, OR THEY
TRY TO HAVE A SAFE PASSAGE OPEN.
HOW THIS IS GOING TO WORK OUT
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THOUSANDS OF
CIVILIANS, I THINK IT IS NOT YET
VERY CLEAR.
THEY ARE MAKING PLANS OF OPENING
SAFE PASS AGES FOR CIVILIANS TO
LEAVE.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW QUICKLY
AFTER THE CITY IS UNDER THE
CONTROL OF IRAQI FORCES CAN
HUMANITARIAN AID AGENCIES GET IN
THERE AND TRY TO EITHER TREAT
THE WOUNDED OR EVACUATE WHO
NEEDS TO BE?
>> WELL, WE HAVE A LITTLE BIT OF
EXPERIENCE WITH THE SITUATION
THAT HAPPENED IN RAMADI AND
FALLUJAH.
I THINK IT'S VERY DIFFICULT JUST
TO THINK THAT WE CAN GO QUICKLY
INSIDE.
BECAUSE WE DO EXPECT THERE MIGHT
BE HEAVY MINES, CONTAMINATION OF
MINES OR BOOBY TRAPS OR MAYBE
STILL SOME SECURITY CONCERN FOR
THE HUMANITARIAN WORKERS.
SO I THINK THE THE FIRST THING
PREFERABLY IS TO CLEAR AND THAT
THE PEOPLE WE CAN ASSIST MIGHT
NOT BE IN FRONT OF THE FRONT
LINES.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
WHAT'S THE MOST IMMEDIATE
OPPRESSING CONCERN.
AS A CITY GETS CUT OFF LIKE
THIS, WHAT HAPPENS TO WATER OR
ACCESS TO FOOD OR CERTAINLY
MEDICINE WHEN THERE'S NOT ANY
GOODS OR SERVICES COMING
IN OR OUT.
>> IF IT IS A CITY IN ISOLATION
OVER A LONG PERIOD, THIS MIGHT
PUT LOTS OF PRESSURES ON THE
CIVILIANS WHICH WE HAVE SEEN
ALSO IN FALLUJAH.
BUT I THINK THAT THE MAJOR
CONCERN IS TO GET ACCESS TO THE
THE PEOPLE, TO EVACUATE THE
WOUNDED AND GET TREATMENT AND I
THINK IF NOBODY WORKS ANY MORE
IN THE HOSPITALS OR CAN GO
SAFELY, IT MAKES IT A REAL
CONCERN AND I THINK PEOPLE WILL
LOSE LIFE JUST BECAUSE THEY
CANNOT ACCESS HOSPITALS AND
HEALTH STRUCTURES.
>> Sreenivasan: KATHARINA RITZ
JOINING US LIVE VIA SKYPE FROM
BAGHDAD TODAY, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANKS SO MUCH, THANKS.
>> LEARN HOW DRONE TECHNOLOGY
IS AIDING HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS
IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.
VISIT PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: IN SYRIA,
FIGHTING INTENSIFIED TODAY IN
THE DIVIDED CITY OF ALEPPO,
AFTER A THREE-DAY CEASEFIRE
ENDED LAST NIGHT.
REBELS SHELLED A GOVERNMENT-
CONTROLLED DISTRICT IN THE WEST,
WHILE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT FORCES,
BACKED BY RUSSIAN WARPLANES,
LAUNCHED AIRSTRIKES ON REBEL-
CONTROLLED AREAS IN THE EASTERN
SIDE OF THE CITY.
THE UNITED NATIONS ESTIMATES
200,000 PEOPLE LIVE IN THOSE
AREAS, AND FEW OF THEM TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF THE THREE-DAY LULL
IN THE FIGHTING TO EVACUATE THE
CITY.
THE BRITAIN-BASED "SYRIAN
OBSERVATORY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS"
SAYS MORE THAN TWO THOUSAND
CIVILIANS, INCLUDING ABOUT 500
CHILDREN, HAVE DIED IN THE SIEGE
OF ALEPPO DURING THE PAST SIX
MONTHS.
THE EXPIRATION OF A THREE-DAY
CEASEFIRE IN YEMEN HAS LED TO
RENEWED FIGHTING THERE.
WARPLANES FROM THE SAUDI ARABIA-
LED COALITION ATTACKED REBEL-
HELD POSITIONS IN THE CAPITAL OF
SANAA TODAY.
THIS, AS A UNITED NATIONS ENVOY
ARRIVED FOR TALKS TO ACHIEVE A
TRUCE IN THE 19-MONTH CIVIL WAR
HAS KILLED 7,000 PEOPLE.
THE CALIFORNIA HIGH PATROL SAYS
AT LEAST 13 PEOPLE DIED TODAY
WHEN THE TOUR BUS THEY WERE ON
COLLIDED EARLY THIS MORNING WITH
A TRUCK ON INTERSTATE 10 NEAR
DESERT PALM SPRINGS.
30 OTHER BUS PASSENGERS WERE
TAKEN TO HOSPITALS FOR
TREATMENT.
THE BUS WAS RETURNING FROM A
CASINO, AND IT WAS STILL DARK
OUT WHEN THE ACCIDENT OCCURRED.
>>THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: POLICE IN NORTH
DAKOTA HAVE ARRESTED 83 PEOPLE
PROTESTING A 1,200 MILE CRUDE
OIL PIPELINE BEING CONSTRUCTED
NEAR A NATIVE AMERICAN
RESERVATION.
POLICE USED PEPPER SPRAY TO
DISPERSE PROTESTERS YESTERDAY
AFTER THEY ATTEMPTED TO BREACH A
POLICE LINE GUARDING
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT.
THE STANDING ROCK SIOUX TRIBE--
ALONG WITH OTHER TRIBES AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVISTS-- WANT
TO STOP CONSTRUCTION OF THE FOUR
BILLION DOLLAR PIPELINE, BECAUSE
THEY FEAR IT COULD CONTAMINATE
THEIR WATER SUPPLY AND ENCROACH
ON THEIR BURIAL SITES.
THE PIPELINE WOULD BRING OIL
FROM NORTH DAKOTA TO REFINERIES
AS FAR AS THE GULF COAST.
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED IN PROTESTS THAT BEGAN
IN AUGUST.
TOMORROW, FRANCE IS EXPECTED TO
EVACUATE NEARLY 7,000 MIGRANTS
AND REFUGEES FROM A CAMP IN
CALAIS.
THEIR AIM IS TO DEMOLISH THE
CAMP, THE CLOSEST ENTRY POINT TO
THE U.K. AFTER REMOVING
EVERYONE.
CORRESPONDENT JENNY LONGDEN FROM
ITN HAS MORE.
>> DEMOLITION TEAMS ARE
PREPARING TO MOVE IN ON THE
CAMP KNOWN AS THE JUNGLE AND
HOPE TO HAVE IT RAZED TO THE
GROUND WITHIN A WEEK.
BUT IT IS STILL HOME TO UP TO
SIX AND A HALF THOUSAND REFUGEES
AND MIGRANTS WHO HOPE TO COME
TO THE U.K. WHERE MANY HAVE
FAMILY AND CAN SPEAK THE
LANGUAGE.
TENSIONS ARE GROWING BETWEEN
THOSE LIVING IN THE THE CAMP AND
THE AUTHORITIES.
LAST NIGHT POLICE RETALIATED
WITH TEAR GAS WHEN STONES STONES
WERE
THROWN ACROSS A FENCE.
THE FRENCH AUTHORITIES HAVE SET
UP THE SECTORS ACROSS ITS WHICH
BUT AIDE WORKERS SAY THEY DON'T
KNOW WHERE THEY WILL BE TAKEN.
>> WE DO NOT KNOW KNOW EXACTLY
WHERE THE THE RECEPTION CENTERS
ARE SITUATED, HOW MANY PEOPLE
WILL BE THERE.
WILL THE FRIENDS REMAIN TOGETHER
OR WILL THEY BE SEPARATED.
THE SITUATION IS EXTREMELY
CONFUSED.
>> Reporter: THE FRENCH
AUTHORITIES WANT TO STOP CALAIS
FROM BEING A FLASH POINT FOR
IMMIGRATION, THEY'RE PREPARING
FOR SOME RESISTANCE FROM THOSE
LIVING IN THE CAMP BEFORE THEY
BEGIN CLEARING IT TOMORROW.
ITV NEWS.
>> THE FIRST WOMAN TO CLIMB
MOUNT EVEREST HAS DIED.
SHE ATTENDED THE WORLD'S HIGHEST
MOUNTAIN IN 1975.
SHE WAS 77 YEARS OLD AM AND
FINALLY, THE THE TWO TEAMS THAT
HAVE GONE THE LONGEST WITHOUT
WINNING BASEBALL'S WORLD SERIES
WILL PLAY EACH OTHER.
THE CHICAGO CUBS ARE IN THE FALL
CLASSIC FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE
1945 AFTER BEATING THE L.A.
DODGERS LAST NIGHT TO WIN THE
NATIONAL LEAGUE PEN ANTI.
THE CUBS WHO HAVEN'T WON SINCE
1908 FACE THE CLEVELAND INDIANS
STARTING TUESDAY.
THE INDIANS LAST WON THE WORLD
SERIES IN 1948.
ON TOMORROW'S NEWSHOUR VIEWS
FROM INSIDE THE SYRIAN WAR IN
THIS 6th YEAR OF CONSTANT
FIGHTING.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.